Rest is the most popular way to expose data from a server through an API.
However, the response returned from a Rest API is very rigid,
and returns all of the data points as designed by the developer,
whether you need them or not.
GraphQL offers greater flexibility in their response returned than Rest.
What is GraphQL?
Simply put GraphQL is a query language for
APIs or syntax that describes how to ask for data,
and is generally used to load data from a server to a client.
The neat thing about GraphQL is that it lets the calling client or
the user specify exactly what data it needs,
and allows for the aggregation of data from multiple sources on the back-end,
allowing the client to make one call to get all of the data it needs.
GraphQL offers maximum efficiency and flexibility.
Let's look at a simple query.
The left-hand side shows the query and the right-hand side shows the return data.
Here, I'm calling the 'findAllLocations' and I'm requesting the ID,
and on the right-hand side,
it returns all of the locations,
but only the ID data-point.
To include GraphQL on your project,
a couple of dependencies are needed.
First, you need the GraphQL Spring Boot Starter.
This starter is very helpful because it will add and
automatically configure a GraphQL servlet,
that you can access at slash GraphQL.
This starter will also use a GraphQL schema library,
to parse all Schema Files found on the class path.
The starter will also set up an endpoint that can access post requests.
The next dependency is the GraphQL Java tools,
and this is a helper library that parses the GraphQL schema.